One of the reasons that
deep learning researchers
have been able to scale
up neural networks,
and thought really
large neural networks
over the last decade,
is because neural networks
can be vectorized.
They can be implemented very
efficiently using
matrix multiplications.
It turns out that
parallel computing
hardware, including GPUs,
but also some CPU
functions are very
good at doing very large
matrix multiplications.
In this video, we'll
take a look at how
these vectorized implementations
of neural networks work.
Without these ideas, I
don't think deep learning
would be anywhere near a
success and scale today.
Here on the left is the
code that you had seen
previously of how you would
implement forward prop,
or forward propagation,
in a single layer.
X here is the input,
W, the weights of
the first, second,
and third neurons, say,
parameters B, and then this
is the same code as
which we saw before.
This will output three numbers,
say, like that.
If you actually implement
this computation,
you get 1, 0, 1.
It turns out you can develop
a vectorized implementation
of this function as follows.
Set X to be equal to this.
Notice the double
square brackets.
This is now a 2D array,
like in TensorFlow.
W is the same as before,
and B, I'm now using B,
is also a one by three 2D array.
Then it turns out that
all of these steps,
this for loop inside,
can be replaced with just
a couple of lines of
code, Z equals np.matmul.
Matmul is how NumPy carries
out matrix multiplication.
Where now X and W
are both matrices,
and so you just
multiply them together.
It turns out that this for loop,
all of these lines
of code can be
replaced with just a
couple of lines of code,
which gives a vectorized
implementation of this function.
You compute Z,
which is now a matrix again,
as numpy.matmul
between A in and W,
where here A in and
W are both matrices,
and matmul is how NumPy
carries out a matrix
multiplication.
It multiplies two
matrices together,
and then adds the
matrix B to it.
Then A out is equal to the
activation function g,
that is the sigmoid function,
applied element-wise
to this matrix Z,
and then you finally
return A out.
This is what the
code looks like.
Notice that in the
vectorized implementation,
all of these quantities, x,
which is fed into the value
of A in as well as W, B,
as well as Z and A out,
all of these are now 2D arrays.
All of these are matrices.
This turns out to be
a very efficient
implementation of
one step of forward propagation
through a dense layer
in the neural network.
This is code for
a vectorized implementation of
forward prop in a
neural network.
But what is this code
doing and how does
it actually work?
What is this matmul
actually doing?
In the next two videos,
both also optional,
we'll go over matrix
multiplication and how that works.
If you're familiar
with linear algebra,
if you're familiar with
vectors, matrices, transposes,
and matrix multiplications,
you can safely just
quickly skim over
these two videos and jump to
the last video of this week.
Then in the last video of
this week, also optional,
we'll dive into more
detail to explain how
matmul gives you this
vectorized implementation.
Let's go onto the next video,
where we'll take a look at
what matrix multiplication is.